---
date: 2025-09-30
version: 1.46
discussion: false
draft: false
---

# September 2025

Install with: [GitHub Actions](../install.md#with-github-actions) | [Azure Pipelines](../install.md#with-azure-pipelines) | [PowerShell](../install.md#with-powershell)

---

Welcome to the September 2025 release of PSRule for Azure.
This release includes new features, new rules and improvements to existing rules.

See the [change log][1] or [GitHub history][2] for a complete list of changes.

## Maturity aligned baseline

Recently the Azure Well-Architected Framework (WAF) was updated to include a [maturity models for each pillar][3].
Maturity models help you assess your current state enabling you to prioritize enhancements and track progress over time.

What's great about this approach is that it recognizes that improving architecture across a pillar is a journey, not a destination.

To help you get started, PSRule for Azure now includes a new built-in baseline aligned to the WAF maturity model.
The first of many planned maturity aligned baselines is the `Azure.Pillar.Security.L1` baseline.

Over the coming releases we will be adding additional maturity aligned baselines for each pillar and level.

These new baselines will complement the existing built-in baselines and provide a structured approach to
progressively improving your Azure architecture.

To find out more about baselines see [Working with baselines][4] and [built-in baselines][5].

## CSV baseline downloads

You can now download as CSV list of rules for each baseline from baseline documentation.
This makes it easier to perform review and keep track of rules for a specific built-in baseline.

To download a CSV list of rules for a baseline,
navigate to the baseline documentation page and click the _Download CSV_ button at the top of the page.

## Improved detection for Azure Container Registry

New rules have been added to improve security by:

- Ensuring export policy is disabled for private registries.
- Ensuring geo-replication is configured only in allowed regions.

Additionally, the reliability rule `Azure.ACR.GeoReplica` has been expanded to support pre-flight validation.

## Thank you

Thanks for your continued support and feedback.
We are always looking for ways to improve the experience of using PSRule for Azure.

If you have any feedback or suggestions, please reach out to us on [GitHub Discussions][6] or [GitHub Issues][7].

If you'd like to contribute to the project, please check out our [contributing guide][8].
We welcome contributions of all kinds, from rules, code, documentation, and samples.

  [1]: ../changelog.md#v1460
  [2]: https://github.com/Azure/PSRule.Rules.Azure/compare/v1.45.0...v1.46.0
  [3]: https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/well-architected/whats-new#maturity-models
  [4]: https://aka.ms/ps-rule-azure/baselines
  [5]: https://azure.github.io/PSRule.Rules.Azure/en/baselines/
  [6]: https://github.com/Azure/PSRule.Rules.Azure/discussions
  [7]: https://github.com/Azure/PSRule.Rules.Azure/issues
  [8]: ../license-contributing/get-started-contributing.md
