---
date: 2025-05-30
version: 1.44
discussion: false
draft: true
---

# May 2025

Install with: [GitHub Actions](../install.md#with-github-actions) | [Azure Pipelines](../install.md#with-azure-pipelines) | [PowerShell](../install.md#with-powershell)

---

Welcome to the May 2025 release of PSRule for Azure.
This release includes new features and improvements to existing rules.

See the [change log][6] or [GitHub history][7] for a complete list of changes.

## Support new Bicep language features

When new language features are released in Bicep, it may be necessary to update the PSRule for Azure to support them.
In the latest Azure Bicep releases, several new functions and features were added that affect in-flight expansion and rules.

With this release we have added the support for the following new functions introduced in Bicep v0.35.1:

- `parseUri`
- `buildUri`
- `toPhysicalZone`
- `toPhysicalZones`
- `toLogicalZone`
- `toLogicalZones`

Additionally, we have added support for:

- Secure outputs with the new `@secure()` decorator added in Bicep v0.35.1.
- The `userPrincipalName` property of the `deployer()` object added in Bicep v0.36.1.

## Expanded detection for Entra Domain Services

This release add new rules to detect configuration of replicas in Entra Domain Services.
New rules for improving the reliability and security of domain services include:

- Using a SKU that supports geo-replication.
- Using a minimum number of replicas.
- Using replicas locations that are allowed.

## Expanded detection for Azure Monitor

This release adds new and updated rules to detect configuration of Azure Monitor resources.
New rules for improving security and operational excellence of Application Insights include:

- Disabling local authentication with instrumentation keys.
- Using a standard naming convention for Application Insights resources.

New rules for improving reliability and operational excellence of Log workspaces include:

- Using a standard naming convention for Log workspaces.
- Configuring replication to an alternate region.

## Thank you

Thanks for your continued support and feedback.
We are always looking for ways to improve the experience of using PSRule for Azure.

If you have any feedback or suggestions, please reach out to us on [GitHub Discussions][3] or [GitHub Issues][4].

If you'd like to contribute to the project, please check out our [contributing guide][5].
We welcome contributions of all kinds, from rules, code, documentation, and samples.

  [3]: https://github.com/Azure/PSRule.Rules.Azure/discussions
  [4]: https://github.com/Azure/PSRule.Rules.Azure/issues
  [5]: ../license-contributing/get-started-contributing.md
  [6]: ../changelog.md#v1440
  [7]: https://github.com/Azure/PSRule.Rules.Azure/compare/v1.43.0...v1.44.0
